Do docs ga (#2)
greg-mckeon/cloudflare-docs: products/workers/src/content/learning/using-durable-objects.md

Durable Objects provide low-latency coordination and consistent storage for the Workers platform through two features: global uniqueness and a transactional storage API.

> * Global Uniqueness guarantees that there will be a single instance of a Durable Object class with a given id running at once, across the whole world.  Requests for a Durable Object id are routed by the Workers runtime to the Cloudflare point-of-presence that owns the Durable Object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Global Uniqueness guarantees that there will be a single instance of a Durable Object class with a given ID running at once, across the world.  Requests for a Durable Object ID are routed by the Workers runtime to the Cloudflare data center that owns the Durable Object.
```

> * The transactional storage API provides strongly-consistent key-value storage to the Durable Object.  Each Object can only read and modify keys associated with that Object. Execution of a Durable Object is single-threaded, but multiple request events may still be processed out-of-order from how they arrived at the Object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The transactional storage API provides strongly consistent key-value storage to the Durable Object.  Each Object can only read and modify keys associated with that Object. Execution of a Durable Object is single-threaded, but multiple request events may still be processed out-of-order from how they arrived at the Object.
```

For a high-level introduction to Durable Objects, [see the announcement blog post](https://blog.cloudflare.com/introducing-workers-durable-objects).

## Using Durable Objects

Durable Objects are named instances of a class you define.  Just like a class in object-oriented programming, the class defines the methods and data a Durable Object can access.

> To start, enable Durable Objects for your account in [the Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/) by navigating to “Workers” and then “Durable Objects”. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start, enable Durable Objects for your account in [the Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/) by navigating to **Workers** > **Durable Objects**. 
```

Note this means bindings are no longer global variables. E.g. if you had a secret binding `MY_SECRET`, you must access it as `env.MY_SECRET`.

> Workers communicate with a Durable Object via the fetch API.  Like a Worker, a Durable Object listens for incoming Fetch events by registering an event handler. The difference is that for Durable Objects the fetch handler is defined as a method on the class.

Reviewer: Should any of these fetch's be in backticks?

Author: I don't think so.

</Aside>

### Durable Object migrations in `wrangler.toml`

> Migrations are performed through the `[[migrations]]` configurations key in your `wrangler.toml` file. Migrations require a migration tag, which is defined by the **tag** property in each migration entry. Migration tags are treated like unique names and are used to determine which migrations have already been applied. Once a given script has a migration tag set on it, all future script uploads must include a migration tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migrations are performed through the `[[migrations]]` configurations key in your `wrangler.toml` file. Migrations require a migration tag, which is defined by the `tag` property in each migration entry. Migration tags are treated like unique names and are used to determine which migrations have already been applied. Once a given script has a migration tag set on it, all future script uploads must include a migration tag.
```
If this shouldn't be in backticks, leave it without bolding.

> The migration list is an ordered array of tables, specified as a top-level key in your `wrangler.toml`. The migration list is inherited by all environments and cannot be overridden by a specific environment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The migration list is an ordered array of tables, specified as a top-level key in your `wrangler.toml` file. The migration list is inherited by all environments and cannot be overridden by a specific environment. 
```

> The migration list is an array of tables, specified as a top-level key in your `wrangler.toml`. The migration list is inherited by all environments and cannot be overridden by a specific environment. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The migration list is an ordered array of tables, specified as a top-level key in your `wrangler.toml`. The migration list is inherited by all environments and cannot be overridden by a specific environment. 
```

Durable Objects is now generally available, however there are some known limitations.

### Global Uniqueness

Uniqueness is currently enforced upon starting a new event (such as receiving an HTTP request), and upon accessing storage. After an event is received, if the event takes some time to execute and does not ever access its durable storage, then it is possible that the Durable Object instance may no longer be current, and some other instance of the same object ID will have been created elsewhere. If the event accesses storage at this point, it will receive an exception, but if the event completes without ever accessing storage, it may not ever realize that the object was no longer current.

In particular, a Durable Object may be superseded in this way in the event of a network partition or a software update (including either an update of the Durable Object's class code, or of the Workers system itself).

### Enumerating objects

> There is currently no support for generating a list of all existing objects, nor any way to bulk export objects.

Reviewer 3: Given that I doubt v4 api docs / trakal changes are going to be ready on monday, can we add a basic note here, something like

The API for listing namespaces is `https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/$YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID/workers/durable_objects/namespaces`
The API for listing objects in a namespace is
`https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/$YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID/workers/durable_objects/namespaces/$NAMESPACE_ID/objects`
See https://api.cloudflare.com/ for more information on the Cloudflare REST API.

Author: added to the api docs.

> [Wrangler tail](/cli-wrangler/commands#tail) logs from requests that are upgraded to WebSockets are delayed until the WebSocket is closed.  Wrangler tail should not be connected to a Durable Object that you expect will receive heavy volumes of traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Wrangler tail](/cli-wrangler/commands#tail) logs from requests that are upgraded to WebSockets are delayed until the WebSocket is closed.  Wrangler tail should not be connected to a script that you expect will receive heavy volumes of traffic.
```

> The Workers dashboard does not yet support editing Workers that use modules syntax.

Reviewer 2: This is no longer true as of this afternoon, but there are two pretty notable bugs that need fixing ASAP and if they aren't fixed in time should be warned about:

* If you edit a script in the editor that used to bind DOs and then save it, the DO bindings get silently dropped
* Previewing scripts that bind DOs doesn't work in the editor -- you currently get an opaque internal error

> Not all Cloudflare locations support Durable Objects yet, so objects may not be created in the same point-of-presence where they are first requested.

Reviewer 4: `s/Not all Cloudflare locations support Durable Objects yet/Not all Cloudflare locations can host Durable Objects/`

We don't need to promise them everywhere. I also think people may conflate "supporting DOs" with "having access to a DO namespace".

As you write Durable Objects, you can find more helpful details in the [Durable Objects runtime API documentation](/runtime-apis/durable-objects).

[Miniflare](https://github.com/cloudflare/miniflare) includes helpful tools for mocking and testing your Durable Objects.

## Limits

See the [Durable Objects section of the Limits page](/platform/limits#durable-objects) for current relevant usage limits.

## Limitations

> Durable Objects is now generally available, however there are some known limitations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Durable Objects is now generally available, however, there are some known limitations.
```

### Global Uniqueness

> Uniqueness is currently enforced upon starting a new event (such as receiving an HTTP request), and upon accessing storage. After an event is received, if the event takes some time to execute and does not ever access its durable storage, then it is possible that the Durable Object instance may no longer be current, and some other instance of the same object ID will have been created elsewhere. If the event accesses storage at this point, it will receive an exception, but if the event completes without ever accessing storage, it may not ever realize that the object was no longer current.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Uniqueness is currently enforced upon starting a new event (such as receiving an HTTP request), and upon accessing storage. After an event is received, if the event takes some time to execute and does not ever access its durable storage, then it is possible that the Durable Object instance may no longer be current, and some other instance of the same Object ID will have been created elsewhere. If the event accesses storage at this point, it will receive an exception, but if the event completes without ever accessing storage, it may not ever realize that the Object was no longer current.
```

Durable Objects is now generally available, however there are some known limitations.

### Global Uniqueness

Uniqueness is currently enforced upon starting a new event (such as receiving an HTTP request), and upon accessing storage. After an event is received, if the event takes some time to execute and does not ever access its durable storage, then it is possible that the Durable Object instance may no longer be current, and some other instance of the same object ID will have been created elsewhere. If the event accesses storage at this point, it will receive an exception, but if the event completes without ever accessing storage, it may not ever realize that the object was no longer current.

In particular, a Durable Object may be superseded in this way in the event of a network partition or a software update (including either an update of the Durable Object's class code, or of the Workers system itself).

### Enumerating objects

There is currently no support for generating a list of all existing objects, nor any way to bulk export objects.

### Development tools

> [Wrangler dev](/cli-wrangler/commands#dev) does not currently work with Durable Objects.

Reviewer 2: This seems moderately redundant with the Debugging section below, but if we're gonna mention `wrangler tail` here then it's hard to argue that `wrangler dev` doesn't also fall under "Development tools".

> * Previewing scripts that bind Durable Objects does not work in the editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previewing scripts that bind Durable Objects do not work in the editor.
```

> These are both bugs that will be fixed soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are known bugs that are being corrected.
```

> ### Object Location

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Object location
```

> Not all Cloudflare locations host Durable Objects, so objects may not be created in the same point-of-presence where they are first requested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not all Cloudflare locations host Durable Objects, so Objects may not be created in the same data center where they are first requested.
```

> Currently, Durable Objects do not migrate between locations after initial creation. We will be exploring automatic migration in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, Durable Objects do not migrate between locations after initial creation. Durable Objects will be exploring automatic migration compatibility in the future.
```

### Performance

> Using Durable Objects will often add response latency, as the request must be forwarded to the point-of-presence where the object is located.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using Durable Objects will often add response latency, as the request must be forwarded to the data center where the Object is located.
```

}
```

## Configuration Script

While using Wrangler is strongly recommended, if you would really rather not use it for some reason we've included a [shell script](/publish-durable-object.sh) to automate the curl commands involved in uploading a Worker that implements and uses Durable Objects.

## Troubleshooting

### Debugging

> `wrangler dev` does not currently support Durable Objects.

Reviewer 2: It seems worth also explicitly mentioning `wrangler dev` as an option here -- it can be quite useful.

}
```

## Troubleshooting

### Debugging

> - [`wrangler dev`](/cli-wrangler/commands#dev) now supports Durable Objects.

Reviewer 2: This looks weird -- a single bullet point mentioning `wrangler dev` without explaining it right next to a big paragraph explaining `wrangler tail`.

}
```

## Troubleshooting

### Debugging

> - [`wrangler dev`](/cli-wrangler/commands#dev) now supports Durable Objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`wrangler dev`](/cli-wrangler/commands#dev) supports Durable Objects.
```

> Wrangler dev opens up a tunnel from your local development environment to Cloudflare's edge, letting you test your Durable Objects code in the Workers environment as you write it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `wrangler dev` command opens up a tunnel from your local development environment to Cloudflare's network edge, letting you test your Durable Objects code in the Workers environment as you write it.
```
